This is a write up for Task 3 in the Network Security room on TryHackMe.com

Task: Hack into the Linux system.

Target IP:10.10.149.45

Step 1: Recon
Execute the Nmap to scan the target IP address ($ nmap 10.10.149.45)
We can see there are three open ports.

21/tcp open ftp
22/tcp open ssh
80/tcp open http

We just discovered three services running:

    FTP server: FTP stands for File Transfer Protocol and is used to transfer files between machines.
    SSH server: SSH stands for Secure Shell and is used for secure remote login. 
In other words, it allows you to execute commands on a remote system securely.
    HTTP server: HTTP stands for Hypertext Transfer Protocol and is used for the web.
Whenever you are browsing the web, you are using HTTP or HTTPS. HTTPS is the secure (encrypted) version of HTTP.

Step 2: Connect to target FTP server. ($ ftp 10.10.149.45)
Try using the login anonymous to see if this FTP server supports anonymous logins. (Type Anonymous when prompted for Name.
Anonymous login worked.
   
Step 3: Enumurate the FTP server. 
Use List command ($ ls) to get a list of the filenames along with their details.
If you are curious about any file, you can download it using get filename. I wonder what the file secret.txt contains, so let’s download it using get secret.txt.
Once you download the files, type exit or bye to quit the FTP client.

Step 4: Download and veiw secrets.txt file from target's FTP server. ($ get secret.txt)
Exit the FTP server and cat the secret.txt file. 

We are able to find a password ABC789xyz123.
This is the answer to the first questions at the bottom of Task 3.

Step 5: Connect to target IP using SSH.
Use command ssh root@10.10.149.45 to try and log in as root account via SSH. 
Input password we found when prompted.
We have gained remote access to a root account via SSH.

Step 6: Use command ls to list all file and directories in the current directoriy.
We see flag.txt

Step 7: View the flag by using command cat flag.txt. 
THM{FTP_SERVER_OWNED}
This is the answer to the second question at the bottom of Task 3.
        
Step 8: Access other user's files. 
When we use ls /home command we can see there is an account nameed librarian. 
Use command cd /home/librarian to move to their directory.
After using ls command we see another flag.txt file
View this file with cat flag.txt command. THM{LIBRARIAN_ACCOUNT_COMPROMISED}.
This is the answer to the third question at the bottom of Task 3. 

DONE

To summarize what we have done in this task to get root access on the target system of IP address 10.10.149.45:

    We used nmap to learn about the running services.
    We connected to the FTP server to learn more about its configuration.
    We discovered a file containing the root password mistakenly copied to a public folder.
    We used the password we found, allowing us to log in successfully.
    We gained access to all the users’ files.
